We're at Genesis 47.
We'll go verse by verse as we're going chapter by chapter.
And the story is all the drama of Joseph and his brothers, their
has been reconciled.
There's five years left in the famine.
The word has been given.
Go get all the children of Israel.
Go get dad, Jacob, and bring him down here.
And I'll take care of you for the rest of the famine.
And this chapter is just fabulous.
It's beautiful.
Last week, chapter 46, I said, you know, just one of the greatest chapters in the Bible.
And I just find myself continually going, the greatest chapters, the greatest chapters, because every chapter is just amazing.
But we've been studying the life of Joseph, and we're looking at a 17-year-old boy who was sold in the slavery, overcame temptation,
victory and temptation, victory and trials became second in the land.
The spirit of God was with him.
And I make the point about this and it was a great point that I was making while I was in Nepal, you know, they're one and a half percent.
They don't have what we have.
And I said, you know, but if you look at Joseph, he was a youth with all that goes on with being a youth.
He had no youth group.
He had no church.
He had no pastor.
He had no scriptures.
And yet he lived the victorious Christian life.
And I said, and therefore all of us can and Joseph's secret was that he just was with the Lord.
And here we are.
We get to be with Jesus.
Well, it's almost a little flip of the passage here in that we're going to look at Jacob.
And this is beautiful in that
Here's Jacob.
He thinks he's at the end of his life.
He's 130 years old.
He has 17 years left to go in his life.
He doesn't know that, of course, but we're seeing the maturity of Jacob.
We're going to see him come in the, the schemer, the conniver.
And he's going to come into Egypt.
He's going to stand before the greatest man, most powerful man on the earth, the pharaoh.
And we're not going to see any works of the flesh.
We're not going to see anything of jock in for position or power or anything.
He's just going to come in lowly and we're going to see a man come in and he's literally coming in with this overflowing from his heart.
the blessing onto the Pharaoh.
And I look at that and go, we can do this.
The examples he's going to show us of the blessings we extend to people in word and prayer and deed.
What a passage that we have here.
So let's just pick up there.
And Father, I bless you.
I thank you for your word.
Thank you for giving your heart in the middle of your word as we look at this passage.
What we've been looking at in the book of Genesis is amazing and beautiful and it's still far from over.
Would you let today's word minister to our hearts?
Move the man.
Let me not get in the way of what you want to do here in your word.
And Lord, let it be from the heart of God.
Illuminate your heart.
Draw us.
That we might have the heart of God when we leave this place as you give us your heart and as we give it to others around us.
And we pray this in your name, amen.
Would you take a look?
I just want to get a running start again.
Since it's been a couple weeks, thanks for your prayers.
They were truly ministered to me during my two weeks there in Nepal.
It's good to be back.
I think it's Sunday, right?
Not sure what day it is.
Not sure what time it is.
So verse 31 of Genesis 46, where we left off and where we come in,
Then Joseph said to his brothers in his father's household, I will go up and tell Pharaoh and say to him, my brothers and those of my father's house who were in the land of Canaan have come to me.
And the men are shepherds for their occupation has been the feed livestock and they have brought their flock, their herds and all that they have.
So it shall be when Pharaoh calls you and says, what is your occupation that you shall say?
Your servant's occupation has been with livestock from our youth.
Even till now, both we and also our fathers, that you may dwell in the land of Goshen, for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians.
It says exactly what it means on the abomination.
So they're going to come in.
They're going to identify as shepherds.
considered an abomination, dirty, separated people.
And that's why we'll see they're gonna end up in the land of Goshen, the land of Ramsey, and the like.
Isn't it just fascinating though?
And I find it interesting as I look through the scriptures, how often we are just correlated to we're sheep with a shepherd or we're fissured with fishermen and these type of things.
And they go into the land and they're gonna be
Shepherds.
And it just makes me see the beautiful picture that God weaves through, from Genesis through Revelation, John 10, 11, speaking of Jesus.
He goes, the good, the great, to the chief.
I am the good shepherd.
The good shepherd gives his life for the sheep.
And I'm just kind of building on it.
I'm going to be a shepherd.
And I think all of you are a shepherd in some form or fashion.
I may be shepherd of a church.
But I'm also a shepherd of a family.
I'm also a shepherd over children.
And you may be a shepherd in the ministry of the children's church or whatever ministry God has given you.
I think almost all of us in this room are probably shepherds in some way of over children and grandchildren.
And I think there's a place, if we allow ourselves, as we'll see, as we develop here today, you can be a shepherd in the workplace.
or the ball field or the community or the campus, because God puts us there as a shepherd to lead his sheep to his presence.
And it's the same when we look at Fisher and Fishermen, but we get this look at Jesus, the good shepherd gives his life for the sheep.
What a beautiful heart.
That's what you're worth.
Do you know the value and worth
Can you put any value on your worth if the blood of a lamb was willing to be the price to pay to redeem you?
You know, it's only worth, something's only worth what someone's willing to pay.
I can say my car out there, I love my truck, and hey, I'll sell it to you for blop.
And people can go, but it's not worth that.
It's 10 years old and it's got 100,000 miles.
I'll give you this.
And it can be what I think it's worth, but at the end of the day, it's only worth what somebody would be willing to pay for me.
If someone's only willing to pay a couple thousand dollars, it's only worth a couple thousand dollars regardless if I think it's worth several thousand dollars.
And you can see the correlation of what was God willing to pay for you.
And if there's anybody in your life right now who thinks you're worthless and think you're not a treasure or a value, I hope you remember, you don't have to tell them because what's it matter, but I hope you remember, here's what I'm worth, that the blood of Jesus Christ would be willing to be shed, to pay, to buy me back from my sin.
That's what you're worth, that's what I'm worth.
Because that's what the good shepherd gives his life for his sheep.
Then we see in Hebrews 13, 20, now made the God of peace who brought up our Lord Jesus from the dead.
There's the whole center of the gospel, the resurrection that says that the substitution has been accepted.
Jesus takes our sin that we become sons and daughter.
That great shepherd of the sheep
through the blood of the everlasting covenant.
That everlasting covenant can't be overturned because it's everlasting and it will outlast any man's attempt or anything.
It will outlast all of my doubts and
debates over it.
It's everlasting.
I've been washed with the blood.
You've been washed with the blood.
We are made whitest known.
We're new.
And then I love 1 Peter 5'4".
When the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that does not fade away.
Very beautiful because we're waving through a passage that
Jacob, he thinks he's at the end of his life.
He's coming into the greatest years of his life.
And here we are.
We might be meandering through this world and all that it has, but oh, the beauty of it is
One day we're gonna be given this crown of glory that does not fade away.
And then as we believe, then we cast it at his feet there as we read about the throne there in heaven.
So beautiful pictures there.
They believe that the shepherds were an abomination.
And I'm building something here and then let me read John 10, one through five to you.
because it's applying to you as well as we read this story.
Most assuredly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door but climbs up some other way.
The same is a thief and a robber, but he who enters by the door is a shepherd of the sheep.
To him, the doorkeeper opens and the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out.
Oh, what a beautiful.
word the Lord's given us this morning and when he brings out his own sheep he goes before them and the sheep follow him for they know his voice yet they will by no means follow a stranger but will flee from him for they do not know the voice of strangers and hear the Lord calling to be our shepherd to lead us and to guide us and no one can touch us and all these things but what's fitting and amazing for our passage here is
A picture of a shepherd in a sheep tied together through the scriptures.
And here is what the Lord would be showing us here in this passage in Genesis is that God's chosen Israel, His chosen people were living among them.
And they were considered an abomination.
Do you see that?
This is my chosen people and yet the world, Egypt is always a picture of the world and you are an abomination to me.
Go to the outer parts of the corner of the land because we don't want you mixing and mingling in the midst of us.
And it's such a fitting picture of the world today so much that's their feeling about Christianity.
You got your thing, that's fine.
How many of you guys just stay out of our politics?
How about you guys just stay out of our workplace?
Hey, how about you guys just stay out of our community and all these type of things?
You know, we find you an abomination to the quenching of what we really wanna do and be.
And we're no different than the children of Israel when they went into Egypt.
But again, we're gonna see that if it wasn't for the children of Israel, a whole nation would have perished.
If it wasn't for the son of Israel, Joseph,
all of Egypt would have perished.
Not one of them would have survived.
They would have died in the famine because they wouldn't have been prepared.
And you can see where I'm going with this as fisher of men and shepherds going to lead sheep.
Man, we've been given this opportunity that even if it's a small percentage or whatever it may be, maybe it's whole families and whole neighborhoods, we have this place that we get to preserve a people because of the
heart that we have.
We come in with the heart of the shepherd that we just read and we get to take it to a people that maybe they start with, he's an abomination until we introduce him.
And so the beautiful passage here.
So verse one through four, today as we continue on,
Then Joseph went and told Pharaoh and said, my father and my brothers, their flocks and their herds and all that they possess have come from the land of Canaan and indeed they are in the land of Goshen.
And he took five men from among his brothers and presented them to Pharaoh.
Then Pharaoh said to his brothers, what is your occupation?
And they said to Pharaoh, your servants are shepherds, both we and also our fathers.
It's the whole family history.
And they said the favor, we have come to dwell in the land because your servants have no pasture for their flocks and the famine is severe in the land of Canaan.
Now therefore, please let your servants dwell in the land of Goshen.
They're doing what Joseph called them to do.
Let them can call you an abomination because we surely don't want.
Joseph doesn't want his family intermingling with
Egypt and then absorbing their culture.
We are to be the salt of the earth and the light of the world.
And that's why, hey, stay away from them.
Don't intermarry with them.
Don't get caught up in their culture and their ways and their habits and these type of things.
So they're doing what they're told to do.
But I love verse four, did I write it down?
I did.
This is the King James version.
And it's beautiful because this new King James, we've come to dwell.
This is what it says.
We've come to dwell, habitate, live among you.
But in the King James, it's a more accurate translation.
They said more over on the Pharaoh for to sojourn in the land are we come.
We're just passing through.
We didn't come down here to build houses and become assimilated with you and absorbed into your way.
We're just so journers passing through this world, and we know Hebrews, the Hall of Faith, and again, these pictures in Genesis are life applications for us and the beauty of it.
In Hebrews 11, 8, My Faith, Abraham obeyed when he was called to go
out to the place where he would receive an inheritance.
And he went out not knowing where he was going.
By faith, he dwelt in the land of promise as in a foreign country.
Dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise.
For he waited for the city who has foundation, whose builder and maker is God.
We're gonna read it, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob.
Hey, we're just passing through and it becomes the hall of faith
poster for all of us, this isn't our world.
Hey, build houses, get jobs, have kids.
But man, if we put all this in and we'll see the back end of this when we get there, we put all of our life into this.
It is not a life that's well invested.
And so we look at our forefathers all the way back to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
Verse 13 of Hebrews 11, these all died in faith, not having received the promise.
But having seen them afar off or assured of them, embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on there.
This is the hall of faith, and this is what people of faith and how they we live.
For those who say such things declared plainly that they seek a homeland, verse 15, and truly if they had called to mind that country from which they had come out, they would have had opportunity to return.
But now they desire a better, that is a heavenly country.
Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God.
for he has prepared a city for him.
We're just passing through church.
Praise the Lord for that as we look.
But here they come.
They come as shepherds.
And again, I started with, and I just want to spend a couple minutes before we then kind of just read through and pick a couple points off here for the rest of the chapter.
Shapards, fishermen.
Those are like the two
correlating words that are associated with Jesus and associated with His people.
And I tell you, I got a whole new appreciation for shepherds and shepherds when I was in Nepal.
It's a rough, it is rough territory.
And that's beautiful country.
But what I'm trying to show you in the beautiful country
is I am somewhere around 3,500 feet in elevation where I'm taking this picture.
This is almost 1,000 feet below that.
And it took us over 50, 60 minutes to walk from here to here as you're going up and down the mountain.
And the point I'm making is what that corner is right there,
That's where the shepherds and the shepherdess would take the flock.
And then they would, here's a further away picture, again for me, where I took my break.
I wish I would have been thinking of this when I took the picture.
This is the same road they walked as we walked, and we had to go up to a 3,500 feet.
And then we went down several hundred feet in elevation to get into this community is where they would live.
These are rice patties.
That little green is the church right there in the community.
That's the whole community and that's the church.
Well, there's only one and a half percent.
There's only one and a half percent.
That's why these churches are the size that they are.
and they're just blessed to have what they have, and their greatest joy is to have a place to meet and fellowship outside.
But the point that I'm making about it is, shepherding was hard.
They do this every day, every day, and if I had other pitchers, and while they're bringing them down to the grazing field, they would be cutting stock in the grazing field,
And then when it was all over, they would wrap that stock that would be, you know, this wide, three feet wide and four feet high and maybe two feet thick.
and they would wrap it up in a rope and then tie that rope around their body and they'd have to carry that all the way back up that mountain that I showed you all the way back down into their community because if it rained, they don't have weather reports like us.
If it rained, the sheep won't eat so they won't eat wet feed.
So they're not gonna take them all the way back down there in the middle of rain.
They might be stuck in there and literally their homes have sheep pens in them.
you know, to keep the sheep protected and all the pictures we see here through the Scriptures.
And I just said to myself, man, this is hard.
But it was amazing that one picture when the shepherd stopped, the sheep stopped when the shepherd walked, the sheep walked.
It was my sheep here, my voice.
It's everything that you would see, but I would go, man, this is hard.
I'll tell you what, there's another hard
Turn to Luke 5.
Unless I, there it is.
You can turn an area, you can read over my shoulder.
I'll tell you another hard life.
It's being fishermen.
Luke 5, verse one through 11, first calling disciples.
So it was, as the multitude pressed about him to hear the word of God, that he stood by the Lake Gesnerant,
see of Galilee and saw two boats standing by the lake, but the fishermen had gone from them and were washing their nets.
Then he got into one of the boats, which was Simon's, and he asked him to put out a little from the land.
And he sat down and taught the multitude from the boat.
When he had stopped speaking, he said to Simon, launch out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch.
But Simon answered and said to him, Master, we have toiled all night and caught nothing.
Nevertheless,
at your word I will let down the nets.
And when they had done this they caught a great number of fish and their net was breaking.
So they signaled to their partners in the other boat to come out and help them and they came and filled both the boats so that it began to sink.
When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees saying, depart from me.
I am a sinful man, O Lord, for he and all who were with him were astonished at the catch of fish which they had taken.
Verse 10, and so also were James and John, the sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon.
And Jesus said to Simon, do not be afraid.
From now on, you will catch men.
So when they had brought their boats to land, they forsook all and followed him.
Just the beautiful, I mean, this is a sermon in itself and maybe another time for another day.
But the pictures that we see here are just this beautiful picture that we have here.
And I make the statement, or we make the application for all of us.
Who walks on water?
He doesn't need a boat.
He could easily walk on water.
We all agreed to that.
He didn't need Peter's boat.
He chooses to use Peter's boat.
He chooses to use me and you as vessels to carry him where he wants to go so his word can go forth.
He wants to partner with us.
He wants to flow through us.
And he then, and it's
we'll see as we go through, whatever flow through you is going to stick to you at some point.
When the Word of God and the Spirit of God is flowing through us because we become obedient to what He's called us to do, then it's more than a partner and it's a transformation that we get just by being used by Him.
It's more than just catching men and fishers of men.
It's as much about God using the vessel so that He can
partner and fellowship with us as the vessel of God.
That's why I said, don't be afraid.
I know we're afraid of man.
We're afraid to share our faith.
It can get uncomfortable.
We're coming into the holiday scenes.
He said, don't be afraid of that.
I'm with you.
I'm flowing through you.
But there's pictures here that are just, again, the beautiful part where I go fishing is hard, especially in the Middle East.
I've been multiple times.
I've been like, I like the fish.
And I was like, I'm just throwing this stuff in the woods.
I'm done with it.
I'm not even carrying this out.
What I just sat here and I got nothing and et cetera, et cetera.
Sometimes you go long nights and here's Peter.
I fished all night, nothing.
And you can see that as an application for us as being called shepherds hard work, fishing hard work.
It's not throwing that catch a hundred people.
It's sometimes you toil all night.
for periods of time and you're going, Lord, where are you in this ministry?
And we, of course, the Lord deliver us from the tyranny of numbers where we think ministry is about numbers that if I share my faith a hundred times, I should at least see 99 people get saved.
We're lucky if one of them receives Christ, but we will not do this for the one.
And here what's one of the things we see about being this vessel is, you know, these nets when you read, I think it's,
the description that's used here from the historical writings and archaeological discoveries.
It was a tram on that.
It's 50 to 75 pounds.
And you would throw it in, let it soak, and pull it out.
Maybe 15 minutes, let it soak, pull it out.
Peter's been doing this from sundown to sunup because fishermen fish at night.
That's all, that's just the way it went.
Fish were moving and eating in the nighttime.
Throw it in, pull it out.
Can you imagine pulling a net 50 to 75 pounds every 15 minutes and you're pulling it in nothing.
Now, anyway, it's even more because it's wet.
Throw it in, throw it out, pull it out, and then when you're done, at the end of the day, you just can't take your wet net, even if it is fresh water, but there is almost no such thing as pure fresh water, you know, the little brackish or whatever, you have to clean your nets.
And then you have to mend the nets when they're broken because we don't mend the nets before you go fishing.
Next time the fish are just going to go through the hole.
So here you are.
You're done fishing all night.
You've caught nothing.
You're looking at this net going.
You've done me no good.
And then, but you have to clean the net.
If you were catching fish, you got to clean the fish guts and scales out of it.
You know, you're rinsing it in the water.
You're beating it out.
You're getting seaweed and algae and all the other stuff that can make a net rot.
and you gotta clean it up, then you gotta lay it out, you can't put it away wet, you gotta lay it out and let the sun dry it out.
Then when it's finally dry, you can fold it up, put it back in your boat so you can go fish the next day.
So I want you to consider this, Jesus says to Peter after fishing all night, cleaning the net, throw your net in.
If you throw the net in once, you gotta clean the whole thing again, it's wet, you gotta
bread it out for the couple hours and let it dry before you can go home.
And you can see Peter.
And what I love here is Peter, he goes, you know, master.
We've been fishing all night.
The word means teacher.
It's not master as a creator because if Peter recognized him as creator, he would have been creator.
God, you created see a Galilee.
You create a fish.
You know where they're at where throw net.
But instead, teacher, here's what Peter's saying.
Hey,
How about you stick to teaching Bible and I'll stick to being the fisherman?
You're a great Bible teacher.
I'm a fisherman.
I fished all night, nothing.
How about we stick to that?
And that's where I believe when Peter goes, the part for me, I'm a sinful man.
He realizes the challenge that he made to the Lord and who Jesus really was and who he really is.
And he looks at that, looks at those things.
And I think one of the key words here for us, that I just want, I could teach on this the whole day, but I think one of the most powerful words in this passage, and I think there's a word for every last one of us here today, it's the word nevertheless.
Nevertheless, this is what you say, Jesus, this is what I'll do.
And you know, we think fishing for men,
puts us out into the street preaching, the world missions and all these type of things, but there's just something pure and simple about the nevertheless that Jesus would speak to us in our everyday life.
Love that person who has offended you now, ain't doing it.
Forgive them, nope, ain't happening.
Do you know what they did to me?
And you can go and fill in the list long and long and over and over.
And there's a place that we can be like Peter.
Lord, I've been toiling with this all night.
But then there's a place that we can come to and we simply go.
Even though it seems hopeless, empty and vain, nevertheless, if this is what your word says, this is what I shall do.
You want me to love that person?
I'm going to love them unconditionally.
We're going to see the picture, Joseph, today, amazing, unconditional love.
What grace flows from this man.
We're going to see Jacob a changed man, no more scheming, and all these type of things.
We're watching what the Lord can do when he gets hold of somebody who will simply take the promises of God and believe the Word of God that he has the power to do whatever he says.
If it's catch men,
He has the power.
If it's to forgive, he has the power.
If it is to sustain and continue on in the ministry that shows no fruit, he has the power.
And I think one of the most powerful things here with Peter is, nevertheless, I'll do what you tell me to do.
And you know, there's freedom in that for all of us when we live such a life that no matter what happened, I know I followed your word and therefore whatever the outcome is, it's on you, all that I had to do.
You said, launch out a little.
I did.
You said, launch out deeper.
And that's all that was required to mean.
That's all that's required of us in whatever the promise of God is and the word that He gives us.
Well, verse five and six.
Then Pharaoh spoke to Joseph saying, your father and your brothers have come to you.
The land of Egypt is before you have your father and your brothers dwell and the best have them dwell in the best of the land.
Let them dwell in the land of Goshen.
And if you know any competent men among them, then make them my chief herdsmen over my livestock.
So not only are they coming in, they're going to have food, they have land.
Now they actually got a job that makes some money that they can buy clothing and the other things.
Look at God's just amazing
amazing, beautiful provision here, but here's what I wanted to point out to you is this beautiful place of Joseph, and here he's going to give them what grace he's going to say, these are my brothers.
Do you know what they did to him?
And here he comes.
He doesn't bring any shame.
He doesn't.
How much did Pharaoh know about the story of being sold?
I don't know the disrespect and the things that they did to Joseph, but here he comes and he doesn't bring any other shame.
He doesn't bring any other faults or their failing.
He simply comes.
This is my family.
And that's a beautiful thing for us, Church.
All these pictures speak the heart of God to us in Jude 1, 24.
Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy.
To God our Savior who alone is wise be glory, majesty, dominion, and power, both now and forever.
Doesn't matter what you did.
When we stand before heaven, there will be no shame.
I don't have to teach you that.
It will naturally be imparted into you.
When you stand in his presence, he will emanate love and grace and forgiveness and reception.
It won't even be a thought for us.
But he's making it sure that we understand on this side of our breath of heaven here that we know you are presented faultless before the throne.
I call you my family.
I call you sons and daughters, and I'm proud to do that.
And I do it with joy.
That's the amazing thing.
It's like, well, I have to love them because, no, he's like, ah, for the joy that's set before me.
I love to tell my father, there's my kids.
We love receiving this, don't we?
Can you give it?
Will you leave here today and give it to that person who desperately wants grace from you?
They've known, they've failed you, they hurt you.
They've sold you off and whatever it may be, just like Joseph's brother and family did to him, and Joseph gives him this great grace.
The Lord gives us this great grace, and it's all picture.
Can we live a life like Joseph?
I'm going to forgive you.
I'm going to find you flawless.
Verse seven and nine, eight and nine, then Joseph brought in his father, Jacob, and said,
him before Pharaoh and Jacob blessed Pharaoh.
Pharaoh said to Jacob, how old are you?
And Jacob said to Pharaoh, the days of the years of my pilgrimage are 130 years.
Few and evil have been the days of years of my life, and they have not attained to the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrim midge.
Abraham lived the 175.
Isaac would live the 180.
Jacob's 130.
He knows he's getting short strokes here.
He will live 17 more years, which is amazing.
He had 17 years years with Joseph before he was sold in the slavery and everything.
Now he's going to get 17 more years.
Just an interesting math correlation there with Joseph before he dies.
But the way he's saying it, man, I've had some hard life.
And but here I am.
I'm still going.
And what I find interesting about this is that Jacob doesn't come and go, whoa is me, man, let me tell you.
You know, I had this Uncle Laban, I had this crazy brother, or
You know, the family dynamic, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and Jacob and Esau and the family and all these type of things and the craziness of my family.
Then I lost my son for 22 years.
Thought he was dead and man, these hard things been living through.
He doesn't say any of that.
He just said, man, it's been hard.
But he's literally saying, but God sustained me.
God's holding me.
And I just find the beauty of that.
And I think there's a word for us.
We don't need to go to the world to share our burdens.
I don't think anybody in your workplace can understand your burden.
If you want to relate to them of something hard that they're going through, that's a different thing.
comfort in the world to share burdens with.
I just don't see where the fruit there would be.
This is why we come here.
This is why God gives us a place to share together that we get to share our burdens together and cast our cares upon Him, but we do it together and then we can pray together in these things.
Now verse 10, so Jacob blessed Pharaoh and went out from before
Pharaoh.
We know that Hebrew 7-7 tells us that the lesser is blessed by the better, greater.
So here is Pharaoh, the greatest man in the land, but Joseph is passing the blessing onto him.
He's not coming in as in, I'm better than you, but obviously
Jacob recognizes, I need Pharaoh's blessing, favor to live in this land, to receive this food and these type of things.
But there's something spiritual that's going on here.
And I think there's a great word for us, all of us.
One of the things we're seeing here, Church, again is the maturing of Jacob.
He could have came in, stood before Pharaoh and go, this is my opportunity to do some maneuvering here.
To make sure my family gets maybe some palaces.
Hey, he could have came in and go, yep, that son of mine, I raised him.
I taught him these things.
I grew him into the man that he is who became the blessing to you.
Saved your whole nation, Pharaoh.
You would all been wiped out and Jacob just comes in.
He comes in lowly.
He's done with
conniving and scheming and trying to hedge and protect the worldly things, he comes in and he blesses Pharaoh.
And it's a priestly type blessing.
It's a favors that I'm bestowing words upon you that lead into a blessing.
And it makes me think of us.
And the opportunity that God gives us, as I look at Jacob and I consider what the Lord says to us,
We have the blessing of what we know is the priestly blessing of Numbers 6 22 and the Lord spoke to Moses saying speak to Aaron and his son saying this is the way you shall bless the children of Israel say to them the Lord bless you and keep you The Lord make his face shine upon you and be gracious to you The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace
So they shall put my name on the children of Israel."
It's a priestly blessing, and here we are, chosen, washed, accepted in the beloved.
And 1 Peter 2, 9 and 10 says, but you are a chosen generation, a royal priest.
priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people that you make for claim, the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.
Who once were not a people but are now the people of God who had not obtained mercy but now have obtained mercy.
What a blessing that we get.
And I know this just sounds like words, but you know words matter and words have power.
God has given us this great place
that we get to say the blessing of the Lord to people.
For him to tell Aaron, this is the priestly blessing.
It mattered.
And for us to call him, for him to call us a royal priesthood and that we now have the ability to send the priestly blessing onto people.
It matters.
Do you realize
many of you in the workplace, especially how much do you hear the Lord's name used in vain, used disrespectfully to vain means to make common.
And here,
the world around us, they make the name of Jesus or our God a common name.
And he's King of Kings, Lord of Lord, he's the creator of all things on heaven and earth.
And then the world brings him down and uses him as a curse word, uses them in movies to make some type of point of how they, you know, this thing is cursed or whatever it may be.
And we get to be the people that counter that.
And you have to work your way into this if it's in the workplace or with your family, maybe for the Thanksgiving or the Christmas to come.
But what an opportunity we get, you know, when we leave them to say, the Lord bless you.
Just that we can even go for the Lord bless you and keep you.
May His face shine upon you.
You know, in all my years of walking with the Lord, 35 years, I pray
We'll say this, I don't know how many times the people, no one has ever countered me and say, I don't like it when you say that.
I have stopped people in their track that, okay, you know, it's like, it's time to go and people are like, all right, man, hey, see you later.
And I go, hey, the Lord bless you, keep you, may His face shine upon you.
And that moment changes from a welfare well.
It turns into something that it,
almost always just stops people in their track of to hear that type.
Because as we read here in verse 27, so they shall put my name on the children of Israel.
And I will bless them.
When you give that blessing in the name of Jesus, it puts his name upon them for that moment.
And the world may make all this common
We break through and we say this word and it just penetrates into this place that changes everything.
I'll tell you one of the things I do, especially whether it's a workplace or the community or even just going to the, you know, to the grocery store, how you'll hear the word, the Lord's name used in vain.
And I'll hear people use the Lord's name in vain.
I don't know them.
They're over there, whatever.
Every time I hear someone say that word, or those words, and they penetrate my heart, and I hope they penetrate your heart.
I hope they don't become common.
And I know I'm going to sound legalistic.
But if you're watching movies that use the Lord's name in vain, the purpose of those movies by the devil is to desensitize you to the holiness of God's name.
And if you can watch a movie and go, it was just a couple, you know, it's just a couple times,
I remember we went to the movie years ago, Renee might remember it.
And it was like a G-movie.
And they used the Lord's name in vain.
And I go, well, it's a G-movie.
I'm stunned.
I'm sitting there.
I go, what am I going to do?
This is supposed to be the family day.
We're getting popcorn.
We're watching a movie and we're going to go dinner and we enjoy this.
And then it was like 10 minutes later, they used the Lord's name of vain again.
My son's like eight, and he looks at me, and we both gave the look.
Let's go.
He was eight, and he wasn't gonna sit through a movie that used the Lord's name in vain.
We threw out our money and our popcorn, and we left.
But you know what I do, back to the point that I'm making about the Lord's name, when I hear people use the Lord's name in vain,
I'm obviously not going to stop a meeting or walk over to their, you know, the next hour over to grocery store or whatever the situation is.
But you know what I say?
You know what, Lord, though they curse you, I praise you.
And right there on the spot, I say, Lord, I praise you because you're holy.
Lord, I praise you because you redeem me with the perfect blood of Jesus.
Lord, I praise you because you've given me in mind to see the holiness and glory of the Lord.
You know what happens?
It's impossible to say that and then not find yourself flipping it and going, Lord, I pray for them.
They obviously don't know you or they've been so desensitized or become so absorbed by the world.
They don't know the holiness of God.
Lord, I pray that you would open their eyes.
What a blessing that we have to be like Jacob as we see this.
He blesses this most powerful man on the planet.
and he gives us the example as the royal priesthood to do the same.
Well verse 11 could talk about that for another hour, I would love to, but verse 11 and Joseph situated his father and his brother and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt in the best land in the land of Ramses as Pharaoh had commanded.
Goshen is the land of Ramsey.
Ramsey was one of the Pharaoh's names.
That's what that means there.
But they're getting the best of the land.
So Joseph doesn't only give them the grace by calling them brothers and sisters.
These are my kin.
He gives them the best of the land.
He doesn't hold grudge against them.
Verse 12 and 13, then Joseph provided his father, his brothers, and all his father's household with bread according to the number of their family.
Now there was no bread in all the land, for the famine was very severe, so that the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan languished because of the famine.
Making it very clear, there's no place for them to go except Egypt.
Canaan was wiped out as well, and this is the third year of the famine, and so all the grain is wiped out.
anywhere, even if there was some meagerly stocks anywhere else that had some grain.
It's all gone.
Verse 14, now they're going to be given, wiping out all their savings.
Then Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan for the grain which they had bought.
And Joseph brought
the money into Pharaoh's house.
Now 15 through 17, we're going to see they're going to give up their possessions because now they're out of money.
Now it's only what they have left, whether it's carts and anything of value, verse 15 through 17.
So when the money failed in the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came to Joseph and said, give us bread.
Why should we die in your presence?
For the money has failed.
It's out.
Then Joseph said, give me your livestock and I'll give you bread for your livestock if the money is gone.
So they brought their livestock to Joseph and Joseph gave them bread in exchange for the horses, the flocks, the cattle, the herds, and for the donkeys.
Thus he fed them with bread in exchange for all their livestock that year.
Pretty amazing because here comes the shepherds from Canaan.
They're gonna take care of all these livestock because who else was gonna do it?
So here they are.
Hey, what's money?
We ain't got money.
Here we got these possessions.
You will give you our possession.
What's all this matter if we're going to die over these things?
And I think it's just a word.
They were willing to part with their possessions because the possessions took on what their value was, worthless.
When you come down to what the means were, the possessions weren't meant nothing if they didn't have the substance to live on.
And so there's always that saying that, you know, is ever so true.
Do you possess your possessions, or do your possessions possess you?
And you just become so focused on taking care of this, getting more of that, and all these type of things.
And you start missing what the true substance is as a Christian, as Jesus Christ, and Him in our life, and the things of the Lord's shepherding, and fishing, and these type of things.
Instead, the overwhelming thing of the possessions.
So verse 18 through 21, when
That year had ended.
They came to him the next year and said to him, we will not hide from my Lord.
Our money is gone.
My Lord also has our herds of livestock.
There is nothing left in the sight of my Lord, but our bodies and our lands.
Why should we die before your eyes, both we and our land?
Buy us in our land for bread and we in our land will be your servants of Pharaoh.
Give us seed that we may live and not die, that we may
that the land may not be desolate than Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh for every man of
of the Egyptians sold his field because the famine was severe upon the land.
So the land became pharaohs.
And as for the people, he moved them into cities from one end of the borders of Egypt to the other.
So he's bringing them in close, you know, where they can get the grain and these type of things.
And people will challenge Joseph about this, that he's taken advantage of the people.
If we notice in our story, Joseph turned no one away.
This was everybody's choice.
No one had to do this.
Joseph wasn't forcing his hand.
He wasn't taking things by force.
But here what we see is Joseph, a picture of Jesus, just like we read in John 637 that he will by no means turn anyone away who comes and says, I need you.
I need you to survive and sustain me because apart from you, I can do nothing.
And verse 22,
We're going to read about these priests, sadly.
Only the land of the priests he did not buy for the priest had rations allotted to them by Pharaoh.
So Joseph had the answer to Pharaoh.
He's yielding to his employer.
That's how he wants to handle these priests.
And they ate their ration, which Pharaoh gave them.
Therefore, they did not sell their land.
And you know what's interesting to me when you look at this, it's a picture
And as we were studying the book of Revelation and tomorrow 6 p.m., study through the book of Revelation, Revelation is a great picture of the world of life.
Just as this story is, whether it was the money, the possessions, and now the people, everything is flowing.
Everything in this story has flown to the throne of Pharaoh.
Everything.
And favor wasn't even the king of the universe.
And here we see in our world that we're living at.
I don't know if you realize it or not.
As we're reading prophecy next week, we're going to do the prophecy update instead of the last, the weekend of Thanksgiving.
But when we read all this is flown, this whole world that we're in, everything is flowing to the throne of God.
And then when Revelation happened, tribulation period, it gets even tighter.
But right now, it's starting wide and it's getting narrower and narrower and makes me think of Ephesians chapter 1, verse 9.
Having made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in himself, that in the dispensation of the fullness of time, he might gather together in one all things in Christ.
both which are in heaven and which are on earth in Him.
In Him also, we have obtained an inheritance being predestined according to the purpose of Him who works all things according to the counsel of His will.
The whole world is flowing towards the throne.
But here's what I want to say about this point and then we'll finish this up is Christian, the degree in your life that your money
Your possession and your person is flowing towards the throne.
Is the degree that you will be in the flow with what Jesus Christ is doing.
Because we just read Ephesians 1, we're reading this story as a picture of it.
We see the book of Revelation.
We just finished studying that.
Everything ends at the throne.
The new heaven and new earth will be decided at the throne.
The life
of in heaven or not ends at the throne.
Everything in this world is coming and eventually ends at this throne.
And the point I make about that, the degree which we bring everything in our life before the throne.
Lord, here's my money.
Yeah, I want to say it because nobody wants to talk about money.
Money will either choke you to the world or it will free you by saying, Lord,
What would you have me do with my money?
What do you want me to do with the money that you've given me?
Because I have nothing unless you've given it to me.
Your possessions, Lord, how do I use these possessions for your glory?
Or if they're not for your glory, if they're not flowing towards the throne of grace, maybe I need to get rid of it.
But then there's the person, that's the ultimate.
Lord, how is my life in the flow?
of all things coming to the throne.
What is it that you want from me for the time that I have?
Because I'm going to end up before your throne, and there's one word only that I want to hear.
Well done.
Good and faithful servant.
Verse 23, then Joseph
said to the people, indeed I have bought you and your land this day for Pharaoh.
Look, he received for you and you shall sow the land."
So he's given them the means to actually sow the land, to start growing their own crop and be set free.
So people who challenge Joseph on this don't understand the context.
Verse 24 through 26, and it shall come to pass in the harvest that you shall give one fifth
to Pharaoh for fifth shall be your own as seed for your field and your food for those of your household and food for your little ones.
As you start to grow crop, you give 20% to Pharaoh and you keep the 80%.
So they said, you have saved our lives.
Let us find favor in the sight of my Lord and we will be Pharaoh's servant.
And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt to this day that Pharaoh should have one fifth except for the land of the priest only, which did not become Pharaoh's.
I tell you what, people will go, man, that's pretty steep.
I would love to live only at a 20% tax rate, right?
Amen.
We're probably at like 40% when you get done paying your income tax, your sales tax, your property tax, and we are well up to the 40, 50%.
I think it's been said that we don't actually start making our own money until June 3rd.
The first five months of your work life all goes to these taxes.
Verse 27 through 31.
So Israel dwelt in the land, in the country of Goshen, and they had possessions, and they grew and multiplied exceedingly.
And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt 17 years, so the length of Jacob's life was 147 years.
When the time drew near that Israel must die, he called to his son Joseph and said to him, Now if I have found favor in your sight, please put your hand under my thigh, and deal kindly and truly with me, please do not bury me in Egypt.
But let me lie with my fathers, you shall carry me out of Egypt and bury me in the burial place."
And he said, I will do as you have said.
Then he said, swear by me, and he swore to him so Israel bowed himself on the head of his bed.
Jacob
The man has matured.
He remembers the promise that God gave him.
He knows that he's just a sojourner.
Egypt wasn't his promise.
Canaan was.
I know I might not get to see it all, but I want to see.
I don't want to be buried in this land.
And what a beautiful place Jacob doesn't come and say, hey son.
Your number two, built some monuments to the family, make a university in my name, maybe make some health centers, you know, in my name.
He doesn't want none of that.
He goes, just take me home.
Take me to the promise that I have been given.
And you know, churches, I close.
This thing to Jacob, we've been studying, is it?
What a man.
What a different man.
I don't need this world.
I don't need to be taken.
I don't need to connive and scheme and any of these type of things.
I have a home that's waiting for me and this place here in Egypt is not the place.
And I love John 15, nine for him and for me and you.
As a father loved me, I also have loved you, abide in my love.
Jacob's abiding.
These things in the world don't matter.
Philippians 1, 6, being confident in this very thing, that he who's begun a good work and you will complete it until that day of Jesus Christ.
And surely he has changed this man, matured this man, and he has finished well.
And I just want to say, I don't know, it doesn't matter where you're at today.
You may think it's over.
My best years would have been back then.
What's it matter at this point?
If we look at the life of Jacob, this is his greatest chapter.
All that we read and studied of him, this is his greatest chapter because it ends in maturity and it ends in this victory of
faith in God and it ends in his latter years, his last years.
And God will do the same for us.
And Lord, I thank you for your word and the power of it, the beauty of it, the majesty of it.
Oh Lord, what you have given us to ponder these times.
And Lord, I pray for myself.
I pray for all of us together that we believe the best is still yet to come, regardless of what the past may have been.
We believe the best is yet to come as we look at Jacob for he who began a good work will be faithful to complete it, to perform it.
You're on the move, you never stop.
And Lord, I can't imagine that any one of us in this room could not have been challenged by that one word, nevertheless.
Just in the quietness before we begin the rush and run out.
Christian, is there a nevertheless that you need to say?
Yes, too.
God's word is speaking to you.
You know he has spoken.
You've challenged it by questioning his wisdom or even his ability or power.
You may be tired because you've been toiling not just all night, but for months, years.
Oh, I pray you'll be set free in the power that comes with the nevertheless, Lord, at your word.
And do what He called us to do.
Lord, I pray that we would have the blessing and the boldness to give the blessing to this world who makes you so common.
And even if they don't receive the blessing, Lord, it sticks to us, it reminds us, it revives us.
The Lord bless thee, keep thee.
I bless you, Lord.
We praise you.
We thank you for your word.
Bless your people.
Hear our praise in this last worship.
In your name, amen.